well howdy there internet people it's Bo
again so today we're going to talk about
Portland and they're going nationwide
and what would happen if the Trump
administration decided to read their own
manuals I've talked about it the last
few days pointed out that they're
ignoring the manuals or they haven't
read them they're ignoring best
practices they're ignoring their experts
who get paid very very well and they're
making a lot of mistakes because of it
and some of the mistakes are actually
making the situation worse along the way
I've had a lot of people ask me why I'm
trying to help them why I'm pointing
this out I'm obviously on the side of
the people in Portland so why would I
want to point them to the manuals
because the manuals don't say what you
think they might say Trump's response is
based on the public perception of what
people think should be done in a
situation like this the public
perception of how to manage a movement
like this the problem is that perception
is wrong I don't want to put too fine a
point on this but every move that the
Trump administration has made without
exception is explicitly advised against
every move
this happens a lot in stability
operations the public demands immediate
results therefore politicians demand
immediate results without understanding
what's going on and they get their
immediate results failure every time
this is not a conventional thing there
is no hundred our ground war here this
takes time patience it's like one of
those finger traps the harder you fight
against it the stronger it gets in fact
if this was to go to the next level
which Trump's actions may take it to
that the manuals say you need to be
ready to commit for six years it takes
time it takes time what we're going to
do is we're going to talk about this as
if it was happening overseas rather than
in Portland
because when we get to the end there are
some concepts that people are familiar
with them happening overseas but when
you talk about them happening in the US
the idea just kind of eludes us it seems
weird so we're going to talk about this
as if it was occurring overseas okay so
we're running a stability operation
there's people in the streets
they've been there 60 days what do we do
nothing nothing
don't do anything your goal is to stop
it from escalating that's your goal your
goal is to stop it from turning into the
i-word so you don't do anything you're
there to stop it from becoming violent
and I know there are people who are
saying it's already violent no it's not
no it is not because these are the same
people who think they're ready for a
revolution in that context no it's not
it's a calm Tuesday night that doesn't
even make the news if you are dealing
with a grievance driven movement which
this is you have to allow them to speak
their grievances it's in the manual so
you don't do anything Trump's response
has been a concept called iron fist put
it in quotes okay it fells that always
fails it's not what you do the manual
that I've been referencing up until
today that's the entry level course
that's 101 there are more advanced texts
that are available for policy makers the
manual I've been talking about is for
the average soldier so everybody's on
the same page and has a general idea of
what's going on the more advanced texts
that are actually put out by DoD they're
not publicly
available to my knowledge however in
something that can only happen in the
United States most of the information
contained in them isn't developed by DoD
it's developed by outside contractor
civilians academics consultants weirdos
to stick with the language of the
channel one of the big ones is called
Rand and they do most of the work on
this particular subject I'm gonna put a
link down below that has it runs through
all of the different strategies and it
talks about which ones and what
combinations they should be used and all
that stuff we're at the beginning before
it actually goes into the i-word right
the ones that are applicable here are
called hearts and minds and pacification
those are the ones that would work here
now without getting too far into it
there are differences between these two
but they're very subtle for our purposes
today they're the same thing
those are the overriding themes and the
idea here is that you would secure the
area and by secure I don't mean clear I
mean just secure it make sure everybody
stays safe limit injury that's the idea
okay and then you develop now we'll get
to what that means in a second while
you're doing this because it is a
grievance driven movement you allow
redress of grievance in the manual okay
you you allow that to happen now me
because I am sympathetic to the people
in Portland I think all of their
grievances should be addressed
realistically when you're just talking
about managing it you really only need
to do one or two okay you need to do a
good portion of their their grievances
but you don't have to do them all okay
so that keeps it from growing now we get
to the development and this is where
people gasp
we're used to seeing it overseas if
we're trying to win hearts and minds
pacify what do we do what do we do build
schools hospitals we provide health care
education infrastructure fresh water
that's what we do when it's overseas for
geopolitical reasons we have no problem
providing people with this but when
we're talking about it in our own
country well then it's just how we can't
do that we do it overseas all the time
provide relief feed the homeless
provide healthcare provide healthcare
help with economic development to
address income inequality raise the
standard of living this is all stuff we
do overseas during one of these
campaigns but for some reason we can't
do it here and it's a bias see we're
willing to address those things over
there because we're like well you know
they've got a backward government of
course their police needs reform of
course they don't have this stuff but
here in the US
we're number one we're number one
at what at what
this this country actually needs a lot
of the infrastructure development that
happens during stability operations
overseas if we addressed some of that
just as it happens overseas it calms
things down it increases the standard of
living it makes people happier these are
things that would need to be done if
they were following the manuals it's
what they be doing I know it's not
glamorous it's not tough it's not
violent but it winds
that's how you win something like this
no masks no shields no batons no vans
that is explicitly advised against you
build
because your goal is to stop it from
becoming violent if the people want
change you give it to them why because
those who make peaceful revolution
impossible make violent revolution
inevitable this isn't a new theory
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night